More than 20 years ago,
Awake!  magazine published the life story
of Alena Žitníková.
Alena realized that pleasing Jehovah
would mean rejection by this world.
But in the following episode
of Where Are They Now?
note what she describes
as perhaps an even bigger test.
My name is Alena Žitníková,
and I was born into a family
of a zealous Communist.
We believed that a world was coming
where people
would have everything they needed.
They’d be happy,
and there would be peace worldwide,
and I deeply believed it.
But I found paradise among God’s people.
As I grew up, I realized that Communism
had its deficits because I saw its hypocrisy.
People didn’t practice what they preached.
In high school, I met a friend
who started talking about God and the Bible.
So the fact that God’s name is Jehovah
and that something called God’s Kingdom
and Armageddon will come
—those were all new concepts for me.
I’d never heard of these things before.
I’d never even held a Bible in my hand.
A Bible study gradually helped me gain faith.
In 1983, I was baptized in a bathtub.
At that time,
Jehovah’s Witnesses were under ban.
In 1989, the Velvet Revolution
took place in Czechoslovakia.
That also meant a change
for Jehovah’s Witnesses
because we could begin
to express our faith publicly.
The house-to-house ministry started,
and it was something
amazing and new for me.
I got to know Petr in our local congregation,
and we got married in 1990.
We entered into full-time service
two years after the wedding.
We first started serving as regular pioneers,
and two years later
we were invited to Bethel.
Those were years full of joy
and full of hard work,
which greatly enriched me.
We left Bethel eight years later,
and I found that people had changed.
And it was a challenge for us
because now people
had become more materialistic.
When I learned the truth, it seemed to me
that Armageddon was at the door
—that it would come soon.
And the world helped us in a way
because it didn’t want us;
it didn’t want Jehovah’s Witnesses.
But today’s world,
with its freedom,
doesn’t tell us that it doesn’t want us.
In fact, it wants us.
It wants our time, it wants our attention,
and therefore there may be a great danger.
We could feel that Armageddon is delaying.
So we might feel the need
to fulfill our dreams already today.
Jehovah teaches me to be patient.
Jehovah is a happy God,
and even when he waits,
he does not wait idly.
Jehovah is hardworking;
he’s always doing something.
When you fill the waiting with activity,
time goes faster.
The field ministry is very important to me.
Sometimes it costs a little effort,
but my service partners
are always a great encouragement to me.
With Jehovah’s help,
we have nice conversations in service.
And even today, we find people
who think about the meaning of life.
Service does not only consist
of house-to-house service;
service is the whole Christian way of life,
including caring for brothers and sisters.
I think serving my brothers and sisters
requires us to set aside time for them.
In this way, I can promote
a good atmosphere in the congregation.
To be in a spiritual paradise,
I must contribute something.
As a result, the spiritual paradise
will be bigger,
deeper, and more beautiful!
When we do something for others,
we don’t think too much
about ourselves—our pain.
I think life in Jehovah’s service
is sometimes challenging,
but the result is happiness.
And already today,
I can say that my dream of a happy life
has come true.
We’re encouraged
to see Sister Alena Žitníková
and her husband, Petr,
remain busy in Kingdom service.
How wonderful that this has helped them
to have realistic expectations
and continue to remain joyful!
In a world that wants our time and energy,
Alena maintains her focus
by sharing her Christian hope,
caring for her brothers and sisters,
and doing her all to encourage others.